# 1.Maven Goals and Phases

## 1.1 Maven Lifecycle Phases

### 1.1.1 Clean Lifecycle

- pre-clean: execute processes needed prior to the actual project cleaning.
- clean: remove all files generated by the previous build.
- post-clean: execute processes needed to finalize the project cleaning.

### 1.1.2 Default Lifecycle

- validate: checks if all information necessary for the build is available.
- compile: complie the provided source code into binary artifacts.
- test: executes unit tests.
- package: packages complied code into an archive file.
- integration-test: executes additional tests,which require the packaging.
- verify:checks if the package is valid.
- install: installs the package file into the local Maven repository.
- deploy: deploys the package file to a remote server or repository.

### 1.1.3 Site Lifecycle

- pre-site: execute processes needed prior to the actual project site generation.
- site: generate the project's site documentation.
- post-site: execute processes needed to finalize the site generation,and to prepare for site deployment.
- site-deploy: deploy the generated site documentation to tne specified web server.

# 1.1.2 Maven Goal

Each phase is a sequence of goals,and each goal is responsible for a specific task.

When we run a phase,all goals bound to this phase are executed in order.

Here are some of the phases and default goals bound to them:

- **compiler:compile** - bound to the *compile* phase.
- **compiler:testCompile** - bound to the *test-compile* phase.
- **surefile:test** - bound to the *test* phase.
- **install:install** - bound to the *install* phase.
- **jar:jar** - bound to the *package* phase.
- **war:war** - bound to the *package* phase.

We can list all goals bound to a specific phase and their plugins using the command:


```
mvn help:describe -Dcmd=<phase>
```


## 1.2 Maven Plugins

A Maven plugin is a collection of one or more goals.Goals are executed in phases.

The rich list of plugins that are officially supported by Maven is available [here](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/).

There are the build and the reporting plugins:

- **Build plugins** will be executed during the build and they should be configured in the `<build/>` element from the POM.
- **Reporting plugins** will be executed during the site generation and they should be configured in the `<reporting/>` element from the POM. Because the result of a Reporting plugin is part of the generated site, Reporting plugins should be both internationalized and localized. You can read more about [the localization of our plugins](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/localization.html) and how you can help. 

To go through any one of the above phases,we just have to call one command:


```
mvn <phase>
```

Please note that goals provided by plugins can be associated with different phases of the lifecycle.

# 2. Maven Dependency Scopes

## 2.1 Overview

There are two type of dependencies in Maven:direct and transitive.

## 2.2 Dependency Scopes

Maven has six default dependency scopes.

### 2.2.1 Compile

Default scope when no other scope is provided.

**Dependencies with this scope are available one the classpath of the project in all build tasks**.They are alse propagated to the dependent projects.

### 2.2.2 Provided

**This scope mark dependencies that should be provided at runtime by JDK
or a container**.

The *provided* dependencies are available only at compile time and in the test classpath of the project.These dependencies are also not transitive.

### 2.2.3 Runtime

**The dependencies of this scope are required at runtime**.But we don't need them for the compilation of the project code.

### 2.2.4 Test

**Test dependencies aren't transitive and are only present for test and execution classpaths**.

### 2.2.5 System

**System scope is very similar to the *provided* scope**.The main diference is that *system* requires us to directly point to a specific jar on the system.

Note that system scope is deprecated.

### 3.3.6 Import

**Import scope is only available for the dependency type *pom***.